You learned about let and const, another thing, another construct you're going to see a lot in
this course, our arrow functions,
that's a different syntax for creating Javascript functions.
A normal Javascript function of course looks like this
with the function keyword, you might also know the syntax where you have var myFunc equals function.
Now an arrow function looks like this,
here I'm storing it in a constant and then on the right side of the equals sign,
that's the arrow function syntax.
A list of arguments, here it's none but it could hold some arguments and then an arrow,
so an equal sign and a greater than sign and then the function body.
The arrow function syntax is a bit shorter than the normal syntax since it omits the function keyword
and it also and that is the great benefit,
solves a lot of the issues you often had with the
this keyword in Javascript.
If you've worked with Javascript a bit, you probably know that the this keyword doesn't always refer to what
you might have expected it to refer to during you writing your code,
when you use this inside an arrow function, it will always keep its context and not change it surprisingly
on runtime.
So let's now move to JSBin to see that arrow function syntax
in practice. Back in JSBin,
let's create a normal function, printMyName, like this.
Now here we can of course output console log name and pass name as an argument.
Now if I call printMyName like this and hit control enter, we get undefined because I didn't pass
anything, if I do the same with Max passed as an argument,
we get Max. Now the arrow function equivalent is to store this in a constant named
printMyName,
it could also be created with let
if you plan on reassigning this variable, printMyName as a constant
and now don't forget to add this arrow between the list of arguments and the function body. If you now clear
and rerun this, you'll still see Max,
so here it behaves exactly in the same way.
Now the this keyword thing is something you'll see throughout the course, it becomes important once you
and functions to objects of course,
first of all let me show you some alternatives to this syntax though, regarding the argument list
to be precise. If we only receive one argument as we do here, you can also use a shortcut of omitting
the parentheses around it,
that's only valid for exactly one argument though, not for more and not for less,
here you will still get the same result.
If you had a function which receives no arguments, this is not valid syntax,
you then need to pass an empty pair of parentheses, like this.
If we execute this now, we also still see Max,
so this works. If you have more than one argument,
you also need parentheses,
so name and age like this won't work,
you will need to wrap this in parentheses and now you could output name and age and pass both as arguments
here.
So these are the different syntaxes
you might see regarding the arguments.
There also is an alternative
regarding the function body,
so on the right side of the arrow.
Obviously a lot of functions just return something,
so let's say here, we actually want to multiply something and we get a number as an argument,
now we want to return number times two. Obviously what we can do as we can console log
the result of
multiply and pass two here.
If I now clear this and run this, we should see four and we do.
If you have this case where all you do in your function body is return and you have no other code in
there, you can omit the curly braces and write this in one line and then you also have to omit the return
keyword. This is a very short version of writing this function, it gets a bit shorter if we take advantage
of the other shortcut of removing the parentheses around the single argument
and now what this does is it still returns the result of this code
here, we just omit the return keyword and we have to omit it
and we have a very concise and short way of writing a function that takes one or more arguments and
return something,
so here clearing and running this still yields 4.
So this is all just syntax you might see and the arrow function in general is something you'll see a lot.
You saw the various syntaxes, you don't have to remember all of them right now,
just be aware that there are different syntaxes and if we then use them, they'll quickly come back
to your mind and you know why we use a given syntax.